# MSc Thesis - DynamicAlgorithmSimulationEnv


## Mobile robot’s sampling algorithms for monitoring of insects’ populations in agricultural fields

### Abstract 
Pests and plant diseases are major causes of production losses and may have a significant impact on the agricultural sector. Detecting pests as early as possible can help increase crop yields and production efficiency. Several robotic monitoring systems have been developed allowing to collect data and provide a greater understanding of environmental processes. An agricultural robot can enable accurate timely detection of pests, by traversing the field autonomously and monitoring the entire cropped area within a field. However, in many cases it is impossible to sample all plants due to resource limitations, such as financial, temporal, or energy constraints. In this thesis, the development and evaluation of several sampling algorithms is presented to address the challenge of an agriculture‐monitoring ground robot designed to locate insects in an agricultural field, where complete sampling of all the plants is infeasible due to resource constraints.
Two situations were investigated in simulation models that were specially developed as part of this thesis: a situation where no a‐priori information on the insects is available and a situation where prior information of the insects distributions within the field are known. For the situation of no a‐priori information on the field and/or the insects in it, seven algorithms were devised and tested, each utilizing a distinct approach to sample the field without prior knowledge on it. The results of the research yielded valuable insights. For small‐sized fields and a single working robot, thorough sampling is crucial and skipping plants should be kept to a minimum. The best detection rates were observed with algorithms that visit every plant, and skipping plants led to decreased success rates. 
For larger fields, the algorithm that implements the neighbor strategy, which provides thorough coverage without skipping any plants and allows for control of a larger proportion of the field each day, is preferred. This algorithm has the highest potential to reach 100% detection, regardless of field size. For the situation of having prior information on the insects locations in the field, we present the development and evaluation of a dynamic sampling algorithm The algorithm utilizes real‐time information to prioritize sampling at suspected points, locate hot spots and adapt sampling plans accordingly. The algorithm's performance was compared to two existing algorithms using Tetranychidae insect data from previous research. Analyses revealed that the dynamic algorithm outperformed the others in all tested scenarios, reaching 100%detection approximately 3–5 days sooner when applied to small fields, and identifying 30%–50% more insects for larger fields. Its high detection percentages in small fields—100 for a 1 ha field—decreased moderately with increasing field size to 80% for a 10 ha field, seemingly irrespective of insect spread rate, which also barely affected insect detection. Doubling the time spent on each sample improved the results by 30–50% on average in the early stages of the simulation.

### Research Objectives
The primary objective of this thesis was to develop sampling algorithms for a mobile robot monitoring insects populations in agricultural fields.
The specific objectives were to:
1. Develop sampling algorithms to efficiently locate insects in an agricultural field.
2. Evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithms and compare them to the current state‐of‐the‐art techniques.
3. Provide a comprehensive evaluation of the proposed algorithms in terms of its effectiveness, efficiency, and robustness in various scenarios.
